This repository contains all the labs I completed in my intro to data analysis course, provided by Microsoft through edX in which I received my certificate. When you click to view the lab, you will then see a blue link which states "view raw". When you click that link, it will then download my Excel spreadsheet so you can view my lab.

Lab 1: In my first lab I had to analyze a real world data set. I then had to create a scatterplot in Excel showing the relationship between two variables. Lastly, I had to compute the correlation efficient between two variables with Excel's built in =CORREL() function.

Lab 2: In my second lab I had to analyze a real world data set and identify which variables were nominal, ordinal, interval and ratio.

Lab 3: In my third lab, I had to perform inner joins, Full outer joins, left joins and right joins by hand using Excel.

Lab 4: In my fourth lab, I had to calculate the mean, median and mode of a data set using Excel. I also had to calculate the standard deviation as well as the skewness using Excel. 

Lab 5: In my fifth lab, I provided visualization for a data set compromised of four variables pertaining to movies. The first variable was movieid, the second was runtime(in minutes), the third was the rating and the fourth was liking. I filtered the movieid variable by ascending order. I then highlighted the entire data set in the runtime column. I inserted a line graph, giving my graph a title and labeling both axis. The line graph displays the runtime for each individual movie. Hightlighting the same varaible I inserted a histogram which displays bins on the x-axis. The y-axis displays the number of movies that falls within a bin. For the last graph, I wanted to visualize the amount of movies that contained one of the four rating variables. I had to use a bar graph because the data is categorical and not numerical. I first had to arrange the data into numbers so Excel's bar graph function can read it. I applied the =COUNTIF() function to the rating variable. I created a mini table with each rating variable and its respective count. I highlighted the mini table and created a bar graph which then displayed my data visually. 

Lab 6: In this lab, I had to imagine that I was a data analyst, hired by a small medical practice to analyze the efficiency of 4 doctors. The data set in question shows the morning schedules of four doctors over the course of a single week, as well as the duration of their appointments with each patient. My job was to analyze each doctor's average time per patient, determine which doctor was the most efficient in terms of time and create a visual aid to show these averages. 

Lab 7: In this lab, I had to imagine I was a data analyst at a university looking at data from 6 different courses from one particular instructor. The data shows the results of post-course surveys that each student took and where they ranked different aspects of the class on a scale of 0-5. I had to get the course average rating and instructor average rating of each course and visualize the rankings. 

Lab 8: In this lab I had to analyze the percentage of the VanArsdel sales in Canada that come from VanArsdel's manufactured goods, by each State (Province). While the chart "Sales by State" shows an overview of this information, I had to show the exact percentage (to two decimal places) of VanArsdel's sales from VanArsdel's manufactured goods. I also had to remember that VanArsdel sells both their own manufactured goods as well as goods from other manufacturers. Finally, I had to highlight if VanArsdel's "share" of goods sold by manufacturer for that state is less than the overall VanArsdel's "share" for the country.
